## Railway_DA

Analysis tool that can support the management team of a railway network to make informed decisions
about how to best allocate its resources, both financial and physical (e.g., trains).
This tool will allow management to decide on aspects such as how to best assign selected trains to lines,
how to maximize its revenue when multiple levels of service are offered, or even, identify more sensitive
sections of its network to failures to anticipate service disruption or at least to mitigate its
nefarious effects.

### Dataset
- Portuguese continental railway network
- stations.csv - lists a description of each railway network station and stop (532 in total). Consists
  of designation of the station/stop ("Name"), district ("District"), municipality ("Municipality"), and
  township ("Township") it belongs and the main line ("Line") that it serves.
- network.csv - lists a description of the network segments (515 in total) where each row describes a
  segment between 2 train stations ("Station_A" and "Station_B"). Stations are referred by their unique
  name ("Name"). The capacity ("Capacity") indicates the number of trains that can simultaneously travel
  on the respective network segment. The last column describes the type of service that is provided
  ("Service"), which can either be STANDARD or ALFA PENDULAR.

### Cost of trains:
- STANDARD - fixed 2€ per train on a segment
- ALFA - 4€ per train, on the same segment

### Tasks to accomplish:
#### Basic requirements
- **[T1.1 1.0 point]** Create simple interface menu, exposing implemented functionalities in user-friendly
  way. Important to showcase project at the demo.
- **[T1.2 1.0 point]** Develop basic functionality (accessible through the menu) to read and parse the
  provided data files. This enables the user to select alternative railway networks for analysis. With
  this information we should create graph(s) upon which we carry the requested tasks.
- **[T1.3 2.0 points]** Include documentation of all the implemented code, using , indicating the time
  complexity for each algorithm.

#### Basic Service Metrics:
- **[T2.1 3.5 points]** Calculate the maximum number of trains that can simultaneously travel between
  two specific stations. Implementation should take any valid source and destination stations as input.
- **[T2.2 2.0 points]** Determine, from all pairs of stations, which ones (if more than one) require the
  most amount of trains when taking full advantage of the existing network capacity.
- **[T2.3 1.5 points]** Indicate where management should assign larger budgets for the purchasing and
  maintenance of trains. The implementation should be able to report the top-k municipalities and districts,
  regarding their transportation needs.
- **[T2.4 1.0 point]** Report the maximum number of trains that can simultaneously arrive at a given station,
  taking into consideration the entire railway grid.

#### Operation cost optimization:
- **[T3.1 2.0 points]** Calculate the maximum amount of trains that can simultaneously travel between two
  specific stations with minimum cost for the company. The system should take any valid source and
  destination stations as input.

#### Reliability and Sensitivity to Line Failures:
- **[T4.1 2.5 points]** Calculate the maximum number of trains that can simultaneously travel between two
  specific stations in a network of reduced connectivity. Reduced connectivity is understood as being a
  subgraph (generated by the system) of the original railway network. The system should take any valid
  source and destination stations as input.
- **[T4.2 1.5 points]** Provide a report on the stations that are the most affected by each segment failure,
  i.e., the top-k most affected stations for each segment to be considered.

#### Demo and Presentation:
- **[T5.1 2.0 points]** 15 minutes demo of the project. Use the interface we developed to illustrate the
  various algorithm results for a sample set of railway grids that we should develop specifically for
  the purposes of the demo. For instance, we can develop a small set of very modest railway networks for
  contrived capacities so that we can highlight the 'correctness' of our solution. For instance, a grid
  that has a 'constricted' segment where all the traffic must go through, will clearly have a segment very
  sensitive to failures. In the evaluation, they will use other larger railway network input cases.

### Turn-in Instructions and Deadline
Submit a zip file named DA2023_PRJ1_G03_3.zip on Moodle with the following content:
- Code folder (contains program source code).
- Documentation folder (contains html documentation, generated using Doxygen).
- Presentation file (PDF format) that will serve as a basis for the demonstration.

## Deadline: April 7, 2023 at midnight.
